>> Mike North: Now let's
get into the TS configs.
So in this next step,
we're going to set up the right or
a working TS config setup so
that Visual Studio code still understands
when to give us the red squiggles or
whatever editor you're using.
Like, the language server needs to
be able to engage with the project.
You need to make sure that you're
building the right thing and
you need to make sure you can
type check the right thing.
What I mean by the right thing here
is like when you're type checking,
you should type check your tests and
your source code.
But when you build,
obviously you don't want all of your test
files to be part of a production build.
There's no point.
So we're going to have to create a couple
TS configs in order for this to work.
So the first thing that we're gonna do,
and we'll come back to this models folder
when we're wiring everything back up,
we're going to go back to our UI package.
We have a bunch of
different tsconfigs here.
This was literally what starting this
vite project auto generated for me.
We've got a tsconfig JSON here.
This is what a language server
is typically going to look for.
Yes, you can configure it, you can provide
some settings and point it to a different
thing, but if you just open up a project,
there's a tsconfig in the root.
That's what your language
server is gonna look at.
Before we started the course,
this is what was working here.
So we're gonna take this and we're gonna
drag it into the root of our project.
We're going to move it to
the root of our project.
We're going to have to
change a couple of things.
Well, first off,
everything in source and tests,
this is not like there are no top
level source and tests folders now.
But we can do this.
We can say, all right,
any subfolder of packages, look for
source and tests, and
we're going to be tracking those files.
Then I'm going to go,
we need a tsconfig for the UI here.
So I'm going to create a new file here and
in this case this is going to
be regarded as a, not a rename.
We're changing these files substantially.
So creating a new file here is fine.
What we'll say is this file extends
tsconfig JSON and if we click there,
we get to our root level.
Tsconfig that's how we know
we have the path, right?
And then we'll say includes.
Sorry, I'm going to close the package
jsons here just so we don't get confused.
So on the left we've got the root one,
and this is for our UI.
So here I'm gonna kind of grab all this,
paste it in here.
Now my job is I'm going to
prune this down a little bit.
We'll undo what we just did for packages,
because relative to this file here,
there is a source and a test subfolder.
And then we've got all this
stuff that's TailWind specific,
post CSS specific, vite, svelte, ESlint.
We'll deal with linting in
a later chapter, but for
now, ESLINT config lives here,
so it's in the UI folder.
Great.
So this is what we want.
This was the starting point.
These were the original contents
of includes in this file.
And over here we can
get rid of this stuff.
So just a summary of where we ended up.
This is looking for all ts, js and
svelte files in the source and
tests folders of any of our packages.
Then over here we have a complete
set of within this package.
What does this look like?
Now, one benefit we have here is
there are no strictness settings
in this file anymore.
What we want to start doing is working
towards a place where across our whole
monorepo we can just point to this
file and say, look, no implicit any.
That's a rule I want to enforce
everywhere in all packages.
You don't wanna be going around and
poking at individual TS
configs eventually, right?
Like in reality,
sometimes you're tightening things up and
you want to do that on
a package by package basis.
But there is some benefit to having
like a baseline layer of config,
particularly around strictness.
This is almost like linting settings.
If typescript is a fancy linter,
which it kind of is, yes.
>> Student: So
aren't we including with the includes and
the base tsconfig pointing
down to the package directory,
aren't we including stuff twice then?
>> Mike North: Yeah,
let's get rid of this and see if it works.
Bluntly, I forget whether we're
replacing the includes array or
whether it's appended to.
Let's delete that and
let's see where we end up.
We can always add it back later, but we
are absolutely specifying it twice here.
So we're going to see real quick,
is this sufficient and
all that you'd need to do
in each monorepo packages.
Whatever's extra, like, whatever's
not in the source and test folder.
In this case,
I want to type check all these config
files in the root of the package.
Good question.
Okay, now we need to turn our
attention back to models, so
we'll close our UI folder here.
We're going to need two files in here.
Tsconfig JSON, tsconfig build JSON and
the rule of thumb here
is the tsconfig JSON.
This is the file that governs where
you want your authoring feedback.
Tsconfig.build.json is about compiling.
Now, we want to make sure we're still
leveraging a common set of strictness
settings and module type and
our target language level.
But certainly the includes
are going to be different here.
One of these should point to your tests,
and
the other should only point
to your source folder.
So in our new tsconfig.json,
it's going to, again,
extend from the base the root
level tsconfig.json,
and let's see if this is sufficient.
Yep, that looks good.
And tsconfig build this
should only include source.
In this case,
don't worry about extensions.
It's all typescript files.
We don't want the tests to be compiled.
Let's try our build command again.
Wait, sorry.
Before I do that,
we need a couple of things.
Compiler options.
All right, noEmit false,
this is a double negative.
What we're saying here is, yes, emit true.
We're going to say the out
directory is dist.
Without this,
you're going to end up with a js file and
a distributed DTS file right next
to your input typescript files.
And personally, it's kind of messy to me.
Rootdir is source.
Now, what this means
is in our dist folder,
we want to see the compiled
results of our source folder.
At the top level of the dist folder,
we don't want to
see disk dist, source,
index, DTS and index js.
We just want to see dist index js.
So this is sort of like the root
of what is to be compiled.
And this is a library.
So let's make sure we build declarations.
We have to opt into that and four options.
That looks right to me.
One more thing.
I want to do this.
So why do I want to do this?
Why not point to the base package JSON?
Well, this still means that if I wanted
to have some strictness settings here,
if I wanted to say compiler options.
No fall through cases in switch.
This lets me have a convention where
it's always the regular tsconfig
JSON where per monorepo package
strictness settings are set.
And so, you can think of it
almost like you've got the base
level tsconfig that threads
up to each monorepo's sort
of like authoring tsconfig and
then the compile tsconfigs.
It's going to look very much like this
in every single library that you have.
Because all this is doing is saying,
okay, forget the test folder.
Also, we're actually compiling stuff and
here's where to put the output.
But these files are just commoditized.
We're going to see when we create other
monorepo packages, we're copying and
pasting these things.
It's a very uninteresting file.
And if you were doing
a large scale monorepo,
this would be the kind of
thing that you would template.
Like you'd use tspoet or something like
that to just crank one of these out.
And you know, it's not something that
a human should really be messing with.
All right, let's try to build.
Ooh, sorry, outdoor, not out.
Hey, there's something.
What happened?
The thing that I said that
makes things messy happened.
Did I get confused here?
Outdoor is dist.
There is stuff in the dist folder.
Let me blow this away and
see what happens.
I'll blow this way.
Let me just check my build script here,
make sure that's right.
Build tsconfig, build JSON.
Yep, and I'm in the models folder.
You know what, is probably the last
time I ran the build command and
maybe I just wasn't paying attention to my
sidebar, but this is the expected output.
Maybe those files I just deleted
from when I attempted the build and
there wasn't any.
We hadn't put these
compiler options here yet.
Anyway, this is what we're looking for.
So we've got our index dts, right?
We've got our index js,
which is like the same things here.
I mean really,
this is just type information and so.
Interesting.
Were these classes.
We have enums.
That's why we're getting
some compiled output.
Enums are not purely type information,
they are values.
If we look in.
Yep, there you go,
this is our string based being created.
So great, so
we've got some meaningful JavaScript.
We've got some meaningful typescript.
Let's try dev mode.
We started compiling in watch mode.
And so what that means is
if we were to go here and
say, I'm gonna add a new property, save,
you can see, if you're watching closely,
every time I save a file things update.
If I were to have any build errors we'd
see those pretty clearly down here, right?
Get a nice link we can
click to go to the line.
So great, so we've got a nice script for
rapid development, we've got a script for
building.
One more thing we have to give attention
to is exactly how is this package
exporting what it has in its dist folder.
So go into your package JSON and
we're going to add a couple
new fields types and
we'll say distindex d ts and
module this is
dist index js so
think of these as the type and
runnable code entry points for
this library.
So when another package imports this,
we're saying where do you go?
Where is the build artifact?